Documentation/deploy-workers.md, before:

# Deploy Kubernetes Worker Node(s)

Boot one or more CoreOS nodes which will be used as Kubernetes Workers. You must use a CoreOS version 773.1.0+ on the Alpha or Beta channel for the `kubelet` to be present in the image.

See the [CoreOS Documentation](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/) for guides on launching nodes on supported platforms.

## Configure Service Components

### TLS Assets

Place the TLS keypairs generated previously in the following locations. Note that each keypair is unique and should be installed on the worker node it was generated for:

* File: `/etc/kubernetes/ssl/ca.pem`
* File: `/etc/kubernetes/ssl/${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.pem`
* File: `/etc/kubernetes/ssl/${WORKER_FQDN}-worker-key.pem`

And make sure you've set proper permission for private key:

```sh
$ sudo chmod 600 /etc/kubernetes/ssl/*-key.pem
$ sudo chown root:root /etc/kubernetes/ssl/*-key.pem
```

Create symlinks to the worker-specific certificate and key so that the remaining configurations on the workers do not have to be unique per worker.

```sh
$ cd /etc/kubernetes/ssl/
$ sudo ln -s ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.pem worker.pem
$ sudo ln -s ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker-key.pem worker-key.pem
```


### flannel Configuration

*Note:* If the pod-network is being managed independently of flannel, this step can be skipped. See [kubernetes networking](kubernetes-networking.md) for more detail.

Just like earlier, create `/etc/flannel/options.env` and modify these values:

* Replace `${ADVERTISE_IP}` with this node's publicly routable IP.
* Replace `${ETCD_ENDPOINTS}`

**/etc/flannel/options.env**

```yaml
FLANNELD_IFACE=${ADVERTISE_IP}
FLANNELD_ETCD_ENDPOINTS=${ETCD_ENDPOINTS}
```

Next create a [systemd drop-in][dropins], which will use the above configuration when flannel starts

**/etc/systemd/system/flanneld.service.d/40-ExecStartPre-symlink.conf**

```yaml
[Service]
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ln -sf /etc/flannel/options.env /run/flannel/options.env
```

[dropins]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/using-systemd-drop-in-units.html

### Docker Configuration

*Note:* If the pod-network is being managed independently of flannel, this step can be skipped. See [kubernetes networking](kubernetes-networking.md) for more detail.

Require that flanneld is running prior to Docker start.

Create `/etc/systemd/system/docker.service.d/40-flannel.conf`

**/etc/systemd/system/docker.service.d/40-flannel.conf**

```yaml
[Unit]
Requires=flanneld.service
After=flanneld.service
```

### Create the kubelet Unit

Create `/etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service` and substitute the following variables:

* Replace `${MASTER_HOST}`
* Replace `${ADVERTISE_IP}` with this node's publicly routable IP.
* Replace `${DNS_SERVICE_IP}`

**/etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service**

```yaml
[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/kubelet \
  --api_servers=https://${MASTER_HOST} \
  --register-node=true \
  --allow-privileged=true \
  --config=/etc/kubernetes/manifests \
  --hostname-override=${ADVERTISE_IP} \
  --cluster-dns=${DNS_SERVICE_IP} \
  --cluster-domain=cluster.local \
  --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml \
  --tls-cert-file=/etc/kubernetes/ssl/worker.pem \
  --tls-private-key-file=/etc/kubernetes/ssl/worker-key.pem
Restart=always
RestartSec=10
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### Set Up the kube-proxy Pod

Create `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-proxy.yaml`:

* Replace `${MASTER_HOST}`

**/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-proxy.yaml**

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: kube-proxy
  namespace: kube-system
spec:
  hostNetwork: true
  containers:
  - name: kube-proxy
    image: gcr.io/google_containers/hyperkube:v1.1.2
    command:
    - /hyperkube
    - proxy
    - --master=https://${MASTER_HOST}
    - --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml
    - --proxy-mode=iptables
    securityContext:
      privileged: true
    volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs
        name: "ssl-certs"
      - mountPath: /etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml
        name: "kubeconfig"
        readOnly: true
      - mountPath: /etc/kubernetes/ssl
        name: "etc-kube-ssl"
        readOnly: true
  volumes:
    - name: "ssl-certs"
      hostPath:
        path: "/usr/share/ca-certificates"
    - name: "kubeconfig"
      hostPath:
        path: "/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml"
    - name: "etc-kube-ssl"
      hostPath:
        path: "/etc/kubernetes/ssl"
```

### Set Up kubeconfig

In order to facilitate secure communication between Kubernetes components, kubeconfig can be used to define authentication settings. In this case, the kubelet and proxy are reading this configuration to communicate with the API.

Create `/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml`:

**/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml**

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Config
clusters:
- name: local
  cluster:
    certificate-authority: /etc/kubernetes/ssl/ca.pem
users:
- name: kubelet
  user:
    client-certificate: /etc/kubernetes/ssl/worker.pem
    client-key: /etc/kubernetes/ssl/worker-key.pem
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: local
    user: kubelet
  name: kubelet-context
current-context: kubelet-context
```

## Start Services

Now we can start the Worker services.

### Load Changed Units

Tell systemd to rescan the units on disk:

```sh
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

### Start kubelet

Start the kubelet, which will start the proxy as well.

```sh
$ sudo systemctl start kubelet
```

Ensure that the kubelet starts on each boot:

```sh
$ sudo systemctl enable kubelet
Created symlink from /etc/systemd/system/multi-user.target.wants/kubelet.service to /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.
```

To check the health of the kubelet systemd unit that we created, run `systemctl status kubelet.service`.

If you run into issues with Docker and Flannel, check to see that the drop-in was applied correctly by running `systemctl cat docker.service` and ensuring that the drop-in appears at the bottom.

<div class="co-m-docs-next-step">
  <p><strong>Is the kubelet running?</strong></p>
  <a href="configure-kubectl.md" class="btn btn-primary btn-icon-right"  data-category="Docs Next" data-event="Kubernetes: kubectl">Yes, ready to configure `kubectl`</a>
</div>

Commit message:

k8s: update docs for hyperkube-image & kubelet-wrapper

Documentation/deploy-workers.md, after:

# Deploy Kubernetes Worker Node(s)

Boot one or more CoreOS nodes which will be used as Kubernetes Workers. You must use a CoreOS version 962.0.0+ for the `/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper` script to be present in the image. See [kubelet-wrapper](kubelet-wrapper.md) for more information.

See the [CoreOS Documentation](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/) for guides on launching nodes on supported platforms.

## Configure Service Components

### TLS Assets

Place the TLS keypairs generated previously in the following locations. Note that each keypair is unique and should be installed on the worker node it was generated for:

* File: `/etc/kubernetes/ssl/ca.pem`
* File: `/etc/kubernetes/ssl/${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.pem`
* File: `/etc/kubernetes/ssl/${WORKER_FQDN}-worker-key.pem`

And make sure you've set proper permission for private key:

```sh
$ sudo chmod 600 /etc/kubernetes/ssl/*-key.pem
$ sudo chown root:root /etc/kubernetes/ssl/*-key.pem
```

Create symlinks to the worker-specific certificate and key so that the remaining configurations on the workers do not have to be unique per worker.

```sh
$ cd /etc/kubernetes/ssl/
$ sudo ln -s ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.pem worker.pem
$ sudo ln -s ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker-key.pem worker-key.pem
```


### flannel Configuration

*Note:* If the pod-network is being managed independently of flannel, this step can be skipped. See [kubernetes networking](kubernetes-networking.md) for more detail.

Just like earlier, create `/etc/flannel/options.env` and modify these values:

* Replace `${ADVERTISE_IP}` with this node's publicly routable IP.
* Replace `${ETCD_ENDPOINTS}`

**/etc/flannel/options.env**

```yaml
FLANNELD_IFACE=${ADVERTISE_IP}
FLANNELD_ETCD_ENDPOINTS=${ETCD_ENDPOINTS}
```

Next create a [systemd drop-in][dropins], which will use the above configuration when flannel starts

**/etc/systemd/system/flanneld.service.d/40-ExecStartPre-symlink.conf**

```yaml
[Service]
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/ln -sf /etc/flannel/options.env /run/flannel/options.env
```

[dropins]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/using-systemd-drop-in-units.html

### Docker Configuration

*Note:* If the pod-network is being managed independently of flannel, this step can be skipped. See [kubernetes networking](kubernetes-networking.md) for more detail.

Require that flanneld is running prior to Docker start.

Create `/etc/systemd/system/docker.service.d/40-flannel.conf`

**/etc/systemd/system/docker.service.d/40-flannel.conf**

```yaml
[Unit]
Requires=flanneld.service
After=flanneld.service
```

### Create the kubelet Unit

Create `/etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service` and substitute the following variables:

* Replace `${MASTER_HOST}`
* Replace `${ADVERTISE_IP}` with this node's publicly routable IP.
* Replace `${DNS_SERVICE_IP}`
* Replace `${K8S_VER}` This will map to: `quay.io/coreos/hyperkube:${K8S_VER}` release

**/etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service**

```yaml
[Service]
ExecStartPre=/usr/bin/mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/manifests

Environment=KUBELET_VERSION=${K8S_VER}
ExecStart=/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper \
  --api_servers=https://${MASTER_HOST} \
  --register-node=true \
  --allow-privileged=true \
  --config=/etc/kubernetes/manifests \
  --hostname-override=${ADVERTISE_IP} \
  --cluster-dns=${DNS_SERVICE_IP} \
  --cluster-domain=cluster.local \
  --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml \
  --tls-cert-file=/etc/kubernetes/ssl/worker.pem \
  --tls-private-key-file=/etc/kubernetes/ssl/worker-key.pem
Restart=always
RestartSec=10
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

### Set Up the kube-proxy Pod

Create `/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-proxy.yaml`:

* Replace `${MASTER_HOST}`

**/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-proxy.yaml**

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: kube-proxy
  namespace: kube-system
spec:
  hostNetwork: true
  containers:
  - name: kube-proxy
    image: quay.io/coreos/hyperkube:v1.1.7_coreos.2
    command:
    - /hyperkube
    - proxy
    - --master=https://${MASTER_HOST}
    - --kubeconfig=/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml
    - --proxy-mode=iptables
    securityContext:
      privileged: true
    volumeMounts:
      - mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs
        name: "ssl-certs"
      - mountPath: /etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml
        name: "kubeconfig"
        readOnly: true
      - mountPath: /etc/kubernetes/ssl
        name: "etc-kube-ssl"
        readOnly: true
  volumes:
    - name: "ssl-certs"
      hostPath:
        path: "/usr/share/ca-certificates"
    - name: "kubeconfig"
      hostPath:
        path: "/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml"
    - name: "etc-kube-ssl"
      hostPath:
        path: "/etc/kubernetes/ssl"
```

### Set Up kubeconfig

In order to facilitate secure communication between Kubernetes components, kubeconfig can be used to define authentication settings. In this case, the kubelet and proxy are reading this configuration to communicate with the API.

Create `/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml`:

**/etc/kubernetes/worker-kubeconfig.yaml**

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Config
clusters:
- name: local
  cluster:
    certificate-authority: /etc/kubernetes/ssl/ca.pem
users:
- name: kubelet
  user:
    client-certificate: /etc/kubernetes/ssl/worker.pem
    client-key: /etc/kubernetes/ssl/worker-key.pem
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: local
    user: kubelet
  name: kubelet-context
current-context: kubelet-context
```

## Start Services

Now we can start the Worker services.

### Load Changed Units

Tell systemd to rescan the units on disk:

```sh
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

### Start kubelet

Start the kubelet, which will start the proxy as well.

```sh
$ sudo systemctl start kubelet
```

Ensure that the kubelet starts on each boot:

```sh
$ sudo systemctl enable kubelet
Created symlink from /etc/systemd/system/multi-user.target.wants/kubelet.service to /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.
```

To check the health of the kubelet systemd unit that we created, run `systemctl status kubelet.service`.

If you run into issues with Docker and Flannel, check to see that the drop-in was applied correctly by running `systemctl cat docker.service` and ensuring that the drop-in appears at the bottom.

<div class="co-m-docs-next-step">
  <p><strong>Is the kubelet running?</strong></p>
  <a href="configure-kubectl.md" class="btn btn-primary btn-icon-right"  data-category="Docs Next" data-event="Kubernetes: kubectl">Yes, ready to configure `kubectl`</a>
</div>
