Documentation/kubernetes-on-baremetal.md, before:

# Kubernetes Installation on Bare Metal &amp; CoreOS

This guide walks a deployer through launching a multi-node Kubernetes cluster on bare metal servers running CoreOS.
After completing this guide, a deployer will be able to interact with the Kubernetes API from their workstation using the kubectl CLI tool.

## Deployment Prerequisites

### CoreOS Installation

For all nodes running Kubernetes components (masters & workers), you must use a CoreOS version 962.0.0+ for the `kubelet-wrapper` script to be present in the image. If you wish to use an earlier version (e.g. from the 'stable' channel) see [kubelet-wrapper](kubelet-wrapper.md) for more information.

Use the official CoreOS bare metal guides for installation instructions:

* [Booting with iPXE][coreos-ipxe]
* [Booting with PXE][coreos-pxe]
* [Installing to Disk][coreos-ondisk]

Mixing multiple methods is possible. For example, doing an install to disk for the machines running the etcd cluster and Kubernetes master nodes, but PXE-booting the worker machines.

[coreos-ipxe]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/booting-with-ipxe.html
[coreos-pxe]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/booting-with-pxe.html
[coreos-ondisk]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/installing-to-disk.html

### Kubernetes Pod Network

The following guides assume the use of [flannel][coreos-flannel] as a software-defined overlay network to manage routing of the [pod network][pod-network].
However, bare metal is a common platform where a self-managed network is used, due to the flexbility provided by physical networking gear.

See the [Kubernetes networking](kubernetes-networking.md) documentation for more information on self-managed networking options.

[coreos-flannel]: https://coreos.com/flannel/docs/latest/flannel-config.html
[pod-network]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/release-1.2/docs/design/networking.md#pod-to-pod

<div class="co-m-docs-next-step">
  <p><strong>Did you install CoreOS on your machines?</strong> An SSH connection to each machine is all that's needed. We'll start the configuration next.</p>
  <a href="getting-started.md" class="btn btn-primary btn-icon-right"  data-category="Getting Started" data-event="Getting Started">I'm ready to get started</a>
</div>

Commit message:

Add support for network policy using Calico
This (rather large) PR adds Calico to the Vagrant and AWS installs and
the documentation.

In all cases, Calico is enabled using a feature flag. It's enabled by
default for single host vagrant installs, and disabled by default for
all others.

Calico relies on using CNI networking plugins with Kubernetes, which
currently means that a special hyperkube images (with a .cni suffix) is
required.

Documentation/kubernetes-on-baremetal.md, after:

# Kubernetes Installation on Bare Metal &amp; CoreOS

This guide walks a deployer through launching a multi-node Kubernetes cluster on bare metal servers running CoreOS.
After completing this guide, a deployer will be able to interact with the Kubernetes API from their workstation using the kubectl CLI tool.

## Deployment Prerequisites

### CoreOS Installation

For all nodes running Kubernetes components (masters & workers), you must use a CoreOS version 962.0.0+ for the `kubelet-wrapper` script to be present in the image. If you wish to use an earlier version (e.g. from the 'stable' channel) see [kubelet-wrapper](kubelet-wrapper.md) for more information.

Use the official CoreOS bare metal guides for installation instructions:

* [Booting with iPXE][coreos-ipxe]
* [Booting with PXE][coreos-pxe]
* [Installing to Disk][coreos-ondisk]

Mixing multiple methods is possible. For example, doing an install to disk for the machines running the etcd cluster and Kubernetes master nodes, but PXE-booting the worker machines.

[coreos-ipxe]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/booting-with-ipxe.html
[coreos-pxe]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/booting-with-pxe.html
[coreos-ondisk]: https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/installing-to-disk.html

### Kubernetes Pod Network

The following guides assume the use of [flannel][coreos-flannel] as a software-defined overlay network to manage routing of the [pod network][pod-network].
However, bare metal is a common platform where a self-managed network is used, due to the flexibility provided by physical networking gear. One common alternative is to use [Calico][calico-networking] networking, avoiding the use of an overlay and allowing interop with physical networking gear using BGP.

See the [Kubernetes networking](kubernetes-networking.md) documentation for more information on self-managed networking options.

[coreos-flannel]: https://coreos.com/flannel/docs/latest/flannel-config.html
[calico-networking]: https://github.com/projectcalico/calico-containers
[pod-network]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/release-1.2/docs/design/networking.md#pod-to-pod

<div class="co-m-docs-next-step">
  <p><strong>Did you install CoreOS on your machines?</strong> An SSH connection to each machine is all that's needed. We'll start the configuration next.</p>
  <a href="getting-started.md" class="btn btn-primary btn-icon-right"  data-category="Getting Started" data-event="Getting Started">I'm ready to get started</a>
</div>
