Documentation/kubelet-wrapper.md, before:

# Kubelet Wrapper Script

The kubelet is the orchestrator of containers on each host in the Kubernetes cluster — it starts and stops containers, configures pod mounts, and other low-level, essential tasks. In order to accomplish these tasks, the kubelet requires special permissions on the host.

CoreOS recommends running the kubelet using the rkt container engine, because it has the correct set of features to enable these special permissions, while taking advantage of all that container packaging has to offer: image discovery, signing/verification, and simplified management.

CoreOS ships a wrapper script, `/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper`, which makes it very easy to run the kubelet under rkt. This script accomplishes two things:

1. Future releases of CoreOS can tweak the system-related parameters of the kubelet, such as mounting in /etc/ssl/certs.
1. Allows user-specified flags and the desired version of the kubelet to be passed to rkt. This gives each cluster admin control to enable newer API features and easily tweak settings, independent of CoreOS releases.

## Using the kubelet-wrapper

An example systemd kubelet.service file which takes advantage of the kubelet-wrapper script:

**/etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service**

```ini
[Service]
Environment=KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG=v1.5.4_coreos.0
Environment="RKT_RUN_ARGS=--uuid-file-save=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid"
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/rkt rm --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
ExecStart=/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper \
  --api-servers=http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
  --pod-manifest-path=/etc/kubernetes/manifests
ExecStop=-/usr/bin/rkt stop --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
```

In the example above we set the `KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG` and the kubelet-wrapper script takes care of running the correct container image with our desired API server address and manifest location.

## Customizing rkt Options

Passing customized options or flags to rkt can be accomplished with the RKT_RUN_ARGS environment variable. Referencing it in a unit file is straightforward.

### Use the host's DNS configuration

Mount the host's `/etc/resolv.conf` file directly into the container in order to inherit DNS settings and allow you to address workers by hostname in addition to an IP address.

```ini
[Service]
Environment=KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG=v1.5.4_coreos.0
Environment="RKT_RUN_ARGS=--volume=resolv,kind=host,source=/etc/resolv.conf \
  --mount volume=resolv,target=/etc/resolv.conf \
  --uuid-file-save=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid"
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/rkt rm --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
ExecStart=/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper \
  --api-servers=http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
  --pod-manifest-path=/etc/kubernetes/manifests
  ...other flags...
ExecStop=-/usr/bin/rkt stop --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
```

### Allow pods to use iSCSI mounts

Pods running in your cluster can reference remote storage volumes located on an iSCSI target.

```ini
[Service]
Environment=KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG=v1.5.4_coreos.0
Environment="RKT_RUN_ARGS=--volume iscsiadm,kind=host,source=/usr/sbin/iscsiadm \
  --mount volume=iscsiadm,target=/usr/sbin/iscsiadm \
  --uuid-file-save=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid"
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/rkt rm --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
ExecStart=/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper \
  --api-servers=http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
  --pod-manifest-path=/etc/kubernetes/manifests
  ...other flags...
ExecStop=-/usr/bin/rkt stop --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
```

### Allow pods to use rbd volumes

Pods using the [rbd volume plugin][rbd-example] to consume data from ceph must ensure that the kubelet has access to modprobe. Add the following options to the `RKT_RUN_ARGS` env before launching the kubelet via kubelet-wrapper:

```ini
[Service]
Environment=KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG=v1.5.4_coreos.0
Environment="RKT_RUN_ARGS=--volume modprobe,kind=host,source=/usr/sbin/modprobe \
  --mount volume=modprobe,target=/usr/sbin/modprobe \
  --volume lib-modules,kind=host,source=/lib/modules \
  --mount volume=lib-modules,target=/lib/modules \
  --uuid-file-save=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid"
...
```

Note that the kubelet also requires access to the userspace `rbd` tool that is included only in hyperkube images tagged `v1.3.6_coreos.0` or later.

### Securing the Kubelet API

By default, the Kubelet allows unauthenticated access to its [API ports][kubernetes-ports].

In order to secure your Kubernetes cluster, you **must** either:

1. Avoid exposing the Kubelet API to the internet, and trust all software with access to it (including every pod run on your cluster), or
2. Turn on [Kubelet authentication][kubelet-authn-authz].

The Kubernetes documentation on [Master -> Cluster communication][master-cluster-communication] provides more information and details solutions.

[#2141]: https://github.com/coreos/rkt/issues/2141
[rbd-example]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/examples/volumes/rbd
[kubernetes-ports]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/examples/volumes/rbd
[kubelet-authn-authz]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kubelet-authentication-authorization/ 
[master-cluster-communication]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/master-node-communication/#master---cluster

Commit message:

docs: CoreOS -> CoreOS Container Linux

Documentation/kubelet-wrapper.md, after:

# Kubelet Wrapper Script

The kubelet is the orchestrator of containers on each host in the Kubernetes cluster — it starts and stops containers, configures pod mounts, and other low-level, essential tasks. In order to accomplish these tasks, the kubelet requires special permissions on the host.

CoreOS recommends running the kubelet using the rkt container engine, because it has the correct set of features to enable these special permissions, while taking advantage of all that container packaging has to offer: image discovery, signing/verification, and simplified management.

Container Linux ships a wrapper script, `/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper`, which makes it very easy to run the kubelet under rkt. This script accomplishes two things:

1. Future releases of Container Linux can tweak the system-related parameters of the kubelet, such as mounting in /etc/ssl/certs.
1. Allows user-specified flags and the desired version of the kubelet to be passed to rkt. This gives each cluster admin control to enable newer API features and easily tweak settings, independent of Container Linux releases.

## Using the kubelet-wrapper

An example systemd kubelet.service file which takes advantage of the kubelet-wrapper script:

**/etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service**

```ini
[Service]
Environment=KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG=v1.5.4_coreos.0
Environment="RKT_RUN_ARGS=--uuid-file-save=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid"
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/rkt rm --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
ExecStart=/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper \
  --api-servers=http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
  --pod-manifest-path=/etc/kubernetes/manifests
ExecStop=-/usr/bin/rkt stop --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
```

In the example above we set the `KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG` and the kubelet-wrapper script takes care of running the correct container image with our desired API server address and manifest location.

## Customizing rkt Options

Passing customized options or flags to rkt can be accomplished with the RKT_RUN_ARGS environment variable. Referencing it in a unit file is straightforward.

### Use the host's DNS configuration

Mount the host's `/etc/resolv.conf` file directly into the container in order to inherit DNS settings and allow you to address workers by hostname in addition to an IP address.

```ini
[Service]
Environment=KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG=v1.5.4_coreos.0
Environment="RKT_RUN_ARGS=--volume=resolv,kind=host,source=/etc/resolv.conf \
  --mount volume=resolv,target=/etc/resolv.conf \
  --uuid-file-save=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid"
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/rkt rm --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
ExecStart=/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper \
  --api-servers=http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
  --pod-manifest-path=/etc/kubernetes/manifests
  ...other flags...
ExecStop=-/usr/bin/rkt stop --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
```

### Allow pods to use iSCSI mounts

Pods running in your cluster can reference remote storage volumes located on an iSCSI target.

```ini
[Service]
Environment=KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG=v1.5.4_coreos.0
Environment="RKT_RUN_ARGS=--volume iscsiadm,kind=host,source=/usr/sbin/iscsiadm \
  --mount volume=iscsiadm,target=/usr/sbin/iscsiadm \
  --uuid-file-save=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid"
ExecStartPre=-/usr/bin/rkt rm --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
ExecStart=/usr/lib/coreos/kubelet-wrapper \
  --api-servers=http://127.0.0.1:8080 \
  --pod-manifest-path=/etc/kubernetes/manifests
  ...other flags...
ExecStop=-/usr/bin/rkt stop --uuid-file=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid
```

### Allow pods to use rbd volumes

Pods using the [rbd volume plugin][rbd-example] to consume data from ceph must ensure that the kubelet has access to modprobe. Add the following options to the `RKT_RUN_ARGS` env before launching the kubelet via kubelet-wrapper:

```ini
[Service]
Environment=KUBELET_IMAGE_TAG=v1.5.4_coreos.0
Environment="RKT_RUN_ARGS=--volume modprobe,kind=host,source=/usr/sbin/modprobe \
  --mount volume=modprobe,target=/usr/sbin/modprobe \
  --volume lib-modules,kind=host,source=/lib/modules \
  --mount volume=lib-modules,target=/lib/modules \
  --uuid-file-save=/var/run/kubelet-pod.uuid"
...
```

Note that the kubelet also requires access to the userspace `rbd` tool that is included only in hyperkube images tagged `v1.3.6_coreos.0` or later.

### Securing the Kubelet API

By default, the Kubelet allows unauthenticated access to its [API ports][kubernetes-ports].

In order to secure your Kubernetes cluster, you **must** either:

1. Avoid exposing the Kubelet API to the internet, and trust all software with access to it (including every pod run on your cluster), or
2. Turn on [Kubelet authentication][kubelet-authn-authz].

The Kubernetes documentation on [Master -> Cluster communication][master-cluster-communication] provides more information and details solutions.

[#2141]: https://github.com/coreos/rkt/issues/2141
[rbd-example]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/examples/volumes/rbd
[kubernetes-ports]: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/tree/master/examples/volumes/rbd
[kubelet-authn-authz]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kubelet-authentication-authorization/ 
[master-cluster-communication]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/master-node-communication/#master---cluster
