Documentation/openssl.md, before:

# Cluster TLS using OpenSSL

This guide will walk you through generating Kubernetes TLS assets using OpenSSL.

This is provided as a proof-of-concept guide to get started with Kubernetes client certificate authentication.

## Deployment Options

The following variables will be used throughout this guide. The default for `K8S_SERVICE_IP` can safely be used, however `MASTER_HOST` will need to be customized to your infrastructure.

**MASTER_HOST**=_no default_

The address of the master node. In most cases this will be the publicly routable IP or hostname of the master cluster. Worker nodes must be able to reach the master node(s) via this address on port 443. Additionally, external clients (such as an administrator using `kubectl`) will also need access, since this will run the Kubernetes API endpoint.

If you will be running a highly-available control-plane consisting of multiple master nodes, then `MASTER_HOST` will ideally be a network load balancer that sits in front of the master nodes. Alternatively, a DNS name can be configured which will resolve to the master node IPs. In either case, the certificates which are generated below need to have the correct CommonName and/or SubjectAlternateNames.

---

**K8S_SERVICE_IP**=10.3.0.1

The IP address of the Kubernetes API Service. The `K8S_SERVICE_IP` will be the first IP in the `SERVICE_IP_RANGE` discussed in the [deployment guide][deployment-guide]. The first IP in the default range of 10.3.0.0/24 will be 10.3.0.1. If the SERVICE_IP_RANGE was changed from the default, this value must be updated as well.

---

**WORKER_IP**=_no default_

**WORKER_FQDN**=_no default_

The IP addresses and fully qualifed hostnames of all worker nodes will be needed. The certificates generated for the worker nodes will need to reflect how requests will be routed to those nodes. In most cases this will be a routable IP and/or a routable hostname. These will be unique per worker; when you see them used below, consider it a loop and do that step for _each_ worker.

## Create a Cluster Root CA

First, we need to create a new certificate authority which will be used to sign the rest of our certificates.

```sh
$ openssl genrsa -out ca-key.pem 2048
$ openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key ca-key.pem -days 10000 -out ca.pem -subj "/CN=kube-ca"
```

**You need to store the CA keypair in a secure location for future use.**

## Kubernetes API Server Keypair

### OpenSSL Config

This is a minimal openssl config which will be used when creating the api-server certificate. We need to create a configuration file since some of the options we need to use can't be specified as flags. Create `openssl.cnf` on your local machine and replace the following values:

* Replace `${K8S_SERVICE_IP}`
* Replace `${MASTER_HOST}`

**openssl.cnf**

```
[req]
req_extensions = v3_req
distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
[req_distinguished_name]
[ v3_req ]
basicConstraints = CA:FALSE
keyUsage = nonRepudiation, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
subjectAltName = @alt_names
[alt_names]
DNS.1 = kubernetes
DNS.2 = kubernetes.default
IP.1 = ${K8S_SERVICE_IP}
IP.2 = ${MASTER_HOST}
```

If you are deploying multiple master nodes in an HA configuration, you may need to add additional IP or DNS SubjectAltNames. What is configured depends on how worker nodes and `kubectl` users will contact the master nodes (directly, via loadbalancer, via DNS name).

Example:

```
DNS.3 = ${MASTER_DNS_NAME}
IP.3 = ${MASTER_IP}
IP.4 = ${MASTER_LOADBALANCER_IP}
```

### Generate the API Server Keypair

Using the above `openssl.cnf`, create the api-server keypair:

```sh
$ openssl genrsa -out apiserver-key.pem 2048
$ openssl req -new -key apiserver-key.pem -out apiserver.csr -subj "/CN=kube-apiserver" -config openssl.cnf
$ openssl x509 -req -in apiserver.csr -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -CAcreateserial -out apiserver.pem -days 365 -extensions v3_req -extfile openssl.cnf
```

## Kubernetes Worker Keypairs

This procedure generates a unique TLS certificate for every Kubernetes worker node in your cluster. While unique certificates are less convenient to generate and deploy, they do provide stronger security assurances and the most portable installation experience across multiple cloud-based and on-premises Kubernetes deployments.

### OpenSSL Config

We will use a common openssl configuration file for all workers. The certificate output will be customized per worker based on environment variables used in conjunction with the configuration file. Create the file `worker-openssl.cnf` on your local machine with the following contents.

**worker-openssl.cnf**

```
[req]
req_extensions = v3_req
distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
[req_distinguished_name]
[ v3_req ]
basicConstraints = CA:FALSE
keyUsage = nonRepudiation, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
subjectAltName = @alt_names
[alt_names]
IP.1 = $ENV::WORKER_IP
```

### Generate the Kubernetes Worker Keypairs

Run the following set of commands once for every worker node in the planned cluster. Replace `WORKER_FQDN` and `WORKER_IP` in the following commands with the correct values for each node. If the node does not have a routeable hostname, set `WORKER_FQDN` to a unique, per-node placeholder name like `kube-worker-1`, `kube-worker-2` and so on.

```sh
$ openssl genrsa -out ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker-key.pem 2048
$ WORKER_IP=${WORKER_IP} openssl req -new -key ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker-key.pem -out ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.csr -subj "/CN=${WORKER_FQDN}" -config worker-openssl.cnf
$ WORKER_IP=${WORKER_IP} openssl x509 -req -in ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.csr -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -CAcreateserial -out ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.pem -days 365 -extensions v3_req -extfile worker-openssl.cnf
```

## Generate the Cluster Administrator Keypair

```sh
$ openssl genrsa -out admin-key.pem 2048
$ openssl req -new -key admin-key.pem -out admin.csr -subj "/CN=kube-admin"
$ openssl x509 -req -in admin.csr -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -CAcreateserial -out admin.pem -days 365
```

You are now ready to return to the [deployment guide][deployment-guide] and configure your Master machine, Workers, and `kubectl` on your local machine.

[deployment-guide]: getting-started.md

Commit message:

Doc/openssl: Additional clarify of SANs explanation

Documentation/openssl.md, after:

# Cluster TLS using OpenSSL

This guide will walk you through generating Kubernetes TLS assets using OpenSSL.

This is provided as a proof-of-concept guide to get started with Kubernetes client certificate authentication.

## Deployment Options

The following variables will be used throughout this guide. The default for `K8S_SERVICE_IP` can safely be used, however `MASTER_HOST` will need to be customized to your infrastructure.

**MASTER_HOST**=_no default_

The address of the master node. In most cases this will be the publicly routable IP or hostname of the master cluster. Worker nodes must be able to reach the master node(s) via this address on port 443. Additionally, external clients (such as an administrator using `kubectl`) will also need access, since this will run the Kubernetes API endpoint.

If you will be running a highly-available control-plane consisting of multiple master nodes, then `MASTER_HOST` will ideally be a network load balancer that sits in front of the master nodes. Alternatively, a DNS name can be configured to resolve to the master node IPs. In either case, the certificates generated below must have the appropriate CommonName and/or SubjectAlternateNames.

---

**K8S_SERVICE_IP**=10.3.0.1

The IP address of the Kubernetes API Service. The `K8S_SERVICE_IP` will be the first IP in the `SERVICE_IP_RANGE` discussed in the [deployment guide][deployment-guide]. The first IP in the default range of 10.3.0.0/24 will be 10.3.0.1. If the SERVICE_IP_RANGE was changed from the default, this value must be updated as well.

---

**WORKER_IP**=_no default_

**WORKER_FQDN**=_no default_

The IP addresses and fully qualifed hostnames of all worker nodes will be needed. The certificates generated for the worker nodes will need to reflect how requests will be routed to those nodes. In most cases this will be a routable IP and/or a routable hostname. These will be unique per worker; when you see them used below, consider it a loop and do that step for _each_ worker.

## Create a Cluster Root CA

First, we need to create a new certificate authority which will be used to sign the rest of our certificates.

```sh
$ openssl genrsa -out ca-key.pem 2048
$ openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key ca-key.pem -days 10000 -out ca.pem -subj "/CN=kube-ca"
```

**You need to store the CA keypair in a secure location for future use.**

## Kubernetes API Server Keypair

### OpenSSL Config

This is a minimal openssl config which will be used when creating the api-server certificate. We need to create a configuration file since some of the options we need to use can't be specified as flags. Create `openssl.cnf` on your local machine and replace the following values:

* Replace `${K8S_SERVICE_IP}`
* Replace `${MASTER_HOST}`

**openssl.cnf**

```
[req]
req_extensions = v3_req
distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
[req_distinguished_name]
[ v3_req ]
basicConstraints = CA:FALSE
keyUsage = nonRepudiation, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
subjectAltName = @alt_names
[alt_names]
DNS.1 = kubernetes
DNS.2 = kubernetes.default
IP.1 = ${K8S_SERVICE_IP}
IP.2 = ${MASTER_HOST}
```

If deploying multiple master nodes in an HA configuration, you may need to add more TLS `subjectAltName`s (SANs). Proper configuration of SANs in each certificate depends on how worker nodes and `kubectl` users contact the master nodes: directly by IP address, via load balancer, or by resolving a DNS name.

Example:

```
DNS.3 = ${MASTER_DNS_NAME}
IP.3 = ${MASTER_IP}
IP.4 = ${MASTER_LOADBALANCER_IP}
```

### Generate the API Server Keypair

Using the above `openssl.cnf`, create the api-server keypair:

```sh
$ openssl genrsa -out apiserver-key.pem 2048
$ openssl req -new -key apiserver-key.pem -out apiserver.csr -subj "/CN=kube-apiserver" -config openssl.cnf
$ openssl x509 -req -in apiserver.csr -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -CAcreateserial -out apiserver.pem -days 365 -extensions v3_req -extfile openssl.cnf
```

## Kubernetes Worker Keypairs

This procedure generates a unique TLS certificate for every Kubernetes worker node in your cluster. While unique certificates are less convenient to generate and deploy, they do provide stronger security assurances and the most portable installation experience across multiple cloud-based and on-premises Kubernetes deployments.

### OpenSSL Config

We will use a common openssl configuration file for all workers. The certificate output will be customized per worker based on environment variables used in conjunction with the configuration file. Create the file `worker-openssl.cnf` on your local machine with the following contents.

**worker-openssl.cnf**

```
[req]
req_extensions = v3_req
distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
[req_distinguished_name]
[ v3_req ]
basicConstraints = CA:FALSE
keyUsage = nonRepudiation, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
subjectAltName = @alt_names
[alt_names]
IP.1 = $ENV::WORKER_IP
```

### Generate the Kubernetes Worker Keypairs

Run the following set of commands once for every worker node in the planned cluster. Replace `WORKER_FQDN` and `WORKER_IP` in the following commands with the correct values for each node. If the node does not have a routeable hostname, set `WORKER_FQDN` to a unique, per-node placeholder name like `kube-worker-1`, `kube-worker-2` and so on.

```sh
$ openssl genrsa -out ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker-key.pem 2048
$ WORKER_IP=${WORKER_IP} openssl req -new -key ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker-key.pem -out ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.csr -subj "/CN=${WORKER_FQDN}" -config worker-openssl.cnf
$ WORKER_IP=${WORKER_IP} openssl x509 -req -in ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.csr -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -CAcreateserial -out ${WORKER_FQDN}-worker.pem -days 365 -extensions v3_req -extfile worker-openssl.cnf
```

## Generate the Cluster Administrator Keypair

```sh
$ openssl genrsa -out admin-key.pem 2048
$ openssl req -new -key admin-key.pem -out admin.csr -subj "/CN=kube-admin"
$ openssl x509 -req -in admin.csr -CA ca.pem -CAkey ca-key.pem -CAcreateserial -out admin.pem -days 365
```

You are now ready to return to the [deployment guide][deployment-guide] and configure your Master machine, Workers, and `kubectl` on your local machine.

[deployment-guide]: getting-started.md
