docs/multi-node/README.md, before:

# Multi Node CoreOS + Kubernetes

These instructions will walk you through deploying a multi-node Kubernetes cluster on CoreOS

## Kubernetes Deployment

### Prerequisites

#### etcd

It is the responsibility of the deployer to provide access to etcd to all Kubernetes nodes.

It is suggested that etcd is run off-cluster.
Use the [official etcd clustering guide](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/clustering.html) to decide how best to deploy etcd into your environment.

### Step 1: Prepare Controller cloud-config

It is suggested that a deployer start from the sample [controller cloud-config](../../cluster/generic/controller-cloud-config.yaml) provided alongside this guide.

* Replace the `{{ETCD_ENDPOINTS}}` with comma separated list of etcd servers (http://ip:port)
* The remaining configurable items are documented in the sample, and can be left as their defaults if IP ranges do not conflict with any existing network infrastructure.

### Step 2: Prepare Worker Configuration

It is suggested that a deployer start from the sample [worker cloud-config](../../cluster/generic/worker-cloud-config.yaml) provided alongside this guide.

* Replace the `{{ETCD_ENDPOINTS}}` with comma separated list of etcd servers (http://ip:port)
* Replace `{{CONTROLLER_ENDPOINT}}` with the endpoint where the controller nodes can be contacted (https://ip:port). In HA configurations this will typically be an external DNS record, or loadbalancer in front of the cluster control nodes.
* If the `DNS_SERVICE_IP` was modified from the default when deploying control nodes, the same value must be used in the worker cloud-config.

### Step 3: Prepare Network

Once the node configuration has been prepared, follow an infrastructure-specific network guide below:

* [Amazon Web Services](aws-network.md)
* [Generic Infrastructure](generic-network.md)

### Step 4: Deploy nodes

You will need to deploy a minimum of 1 controller and 1 worker. Depending on your deployment environment follow one of the sections below.

#### Amazon Web Services

* The [CoreOS EC2 documentation](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/booting-on-ec2.html) can be used to find the latest CoreOS AMI IDs and instructions on how to use the cloud-config's from the previous steps.

#### Generic Infrastructure

* If deploying onto baremetal servers, the [CoreOS Install Utility](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/installing-to-disk.html) may be useful to assist in deployment.

### Step 5: Inspect State

It will take a few minutes for the bootstrap process to download all of the assets. You can watch the status of bootstrap process on controller & worker nodes, by ssh'ing into the machine and querying the systemd journal:

```
journalctl -fu bootstrap
```

*NOTE*: Bootstrap is complete when you see: `systemd[1]: Started bootstrap.service`

Once the controller and worker nodes are running, you can use the `kubectl` tool to query for running pods:

```
core@core-01 ~ $ kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
NAMESPACE     NAME                                   READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kube-system   kube-apiserver-172.17.8.101            1/1       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-apiserver-172.17.8.102            1/1       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-controller-manager-172.17.8.102   1/1       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-dns-v8-eyfuz                      4/4       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-podmaster-172.17.8.101            2/2       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-podmaster-172.17.8.102            2/2       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-scheduler-172.17.8.101            1/1       Running   0          2m
```

## Next Steps

### Deploy Sample Application

Simple multi-tier web application: [Guestbook Example](http://kubernetes.io/v1.0/examples/guestbook-go/README.html)

Commit message:

deploy: generate service account token signing key
This RSA key allows the ServiceTokensController to mint new
tokens in the form of Kubernetes Secrets for ServiceAccounts.

The apiserver is not yet enforcing authentication, but the
ServiceAccount admission controller is enabled. This ensures
that new pods are wired up with the default ServiceAccount
for a given Namespace if one is not specified.

docs/multi-node/README.md, after:

# Multi Node CoreOS + Kubernetes

These instructions will walk you through deploying a multi-node Kubernetes cluster on CoreOS

## Kubernetes Deployment

### Prerequisites

#### etcd

It is the responsibility of the deployer to provide access to etcd to all Kubernetes nodes.

It is suggested that etcd is run off-cluster.
Use the [official etcd clustering guide](https://coreos.com/etcd/docs/latest/clustering.html) to decide how best to deploy etcd into your environment.

### Step 1: Prepare Controller cloud-config

It is suggested that a deployer start from the sample [controller cloud-config](../../cluster/generic/controller-cloud-config.yaml) provided alongside this guide.

* Replace the `{{ETCD_ENDPOINTS}}` with comma separated list of etcd servers (http://ip:port)
* The remaining configurable items are documented in the sample, and can be left as their defaults if IP ranges do not conflict with any existing network infrastructure.

### Step 2: Prepare Worker Configuration

It is suggested that a deployer start from the sample [worker cloud-config](../../cluster/generic/worker-cloud-config.yaml) provided alongside this guide.

* Replace the `{{ETCD_ENDPOINTS}}` with comma separated list of etcd servers (http://ip:port)
* Replace `{{CONTROLLER_ENDPOINT}}` with the endpoint where the controller nodes can be contacted (https://ip:port). In HA configurations this will typically be an external DNS record, or loadbalancer in front of the cluster control nodes.
* If the `DNS_SERVICE_IP` was modified from the default when deploying control nodes, the same value must be used in the worker cloud-config.

### Step 3: Prepare Network

Once the node configuration has been prepared, follow an infrastructure-specific network guide below:

* [Amazon Web Services](aws-network.md)
* [Generic Infrastructure](generic-network.md)

### Step 4: Deploy nodes

You will need to deploy a minimum of 1 controller and 1 worker. Depending on your deployment environment follow one of the sections below.

#### Amazon Web Services

* The [CoreOS EC2 documentation](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/booting-on-ec2.html) can be used to find the latest CoreOS AMI IDs and instructions on how to use the cloud-config's from the previous steps.

#### Generic Infrastructure

* If deploying onto baremetal servers, the [CoreOS Install Utility](https://coreos.com/os/docs/latest/installing-to-disk.html) may be useful to assist in deployment.

### Step 5: Distribute Keys to Controller

In order for the kube-controller-manager to create tokens for service accounts, it needs access to an RSA private key.
Generate this key using a command like the following:

```
openssl genrsa -out service-account-private-key.pem 4096
```

Distribute the same key securely to each controller node, placing it at `/etc/kubernetes/service-account-private-key.pem`.

### Step 6: Inspect State

It will take a few minutes for the bootstrap process to download all of the assets. You can watch the status of bootstrap process on controller & worker nodes, by ssh'ing into the machine and querying the systemd journal:

```
journalctl -fu bootstrap
```

*NOTE*: Bootstrap is complete when you see: `systemd[1]: Started bootstrap.service`

Once the controller and worker nodes are running, you can use the `kubectl` tool to query for running pods:

```
core@core-01 ~ $ kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
NAMESPACE     NAME                                   READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kube-system   kube-apiserver-172.17.8.101            1/1       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-apiserver-172.17.8.102            1/1       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-controller-manager-172.17.8.102   1/1       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-dns-v8-eyfuz                      4/4       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-podmaster-172.17.8.101            2/2       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-podmaster-172.17.8.102            2/2       Running   0          2m
kube-system   kube-scheduler-172.17.8.101            1/1       Running   0          2m
```

## Next Steps

### Deploy Sample Application

Simple multi-tier web application: [Guestbook Example](http://kubernetes.io/v1.0/examples/guestbook-go/README.html)
